What's really missing is a modern book that synthesizes the different strands of the literature, that is, that connects them and explains where they are coming from and what motivated them. Essentially, one could start from Arrow-Debreu and Radner, discuss how RBC connects to it, introduce heterogeneity plus aggregation and then view everything else as introducing some level of market incompleteness (e.g. New-Keynesian models, search models of money and labor, consumption and market incompleteness, recursive contracts and NDPF, ...).



There are a few ways I can think to do this. I outlined one above.

A second way is to write the academic version of Athreya's "Big Ideas in Macro." 

Start with Arrow/Debreu/McKenzie and Radner. Derive welfare theorems. Build the Solow and Ramsey models. Then build the basic RBC model and in so doing introduce technical skills. This completes the common core material. In a series of topics chapters, discuss market failure: imperfect competition (Rotemberg/Woodford), overlapping generations (Diamond), product market failures (NK macro), incomplete markets (Ayiagari), labor search (DMP), and financial frictions (BGG).

That approach puts dynamic general equilibrium in the forefront and basically teaches various extensions of macro as investigations of different kinds of market failure.



Covering the main line wouldn't necessarily be too dificult. A book could cover:

I. Growth Half:

\1. Growth facts
\2. Solow
\3. Ramsey/Cass/Koopmans models, including the required math background
\4. AK models
\5. Expanding variety models (which you'll need for NK models later)
\6. Quality ladder models

II. Cycles Half

\1. Business cycle facts
\2. Brock-Mirman model, to build a bridge between RCK and RBC
\3. The basic RBC model and empirical performance
\4. RBC extensions: indivisible labor, capital utilization, imperfect competition
\5. Cash-in-advance with perfect and imperfect competition
\6. Basic New Keynesian model without capital
\7. New Keynesian model with capital
\8. Labor search (basic model with pointers to frontier work)
\9. Capital market frictions (a basic model with pointers to frontier work)

Now look: such a book leaves out a lot of material. There's no mention of OLG models, no mention of money search, no mention of SVARs and empirical methods. But it would be a start.

The trouble is in finding the right balance between substantive issues and technical issues.